let us take this example where we have taken a
wood of length of four and solve it
Using dynamic programming let us take a one dimensional array
of size n plus one that is five
We are going to fill these array elements one by
one in such a way that each entry is a
sub solution to a smaller sub problem
For example this element array of two will conduct a
solution for a sub problem where the length of the
wood is two and the cost is given for pieces
of length one and two and this element array of
three will contain the solution of this sub problem where
the length of the wood is three and the cost
is given for pieces of length
One two and three with each subsolution
We will solve the next subproblem and finally we
will have an overall optimal solution at array of n
when the length of the wood is zero the profit
we can get will also be 0 so let us add 0 in array zero
Let's fill in the rest of the array one by
one when the length of the wood is one and
the cost has been given for that one piece alone
We need not make any cuts and pick the piece
to get the maximum profit
So let us fill two in array of one
Let us move to the next sub problem for the
length of the wood is two and they cost for
a piece of length
One is two and the cost for a piece of
length two is five
To calculate maximum profit we need to consider all the
possibilities of applying cuts in this wood of length two
here there are two possibilities
Either we can cut the wood at Position one and
take two pieces of length one or we can take
the piece of length two as a whole
To cover these different cases we shall have another variable
J pointing to one Let
us iterate J from 1 to I in each iteration
We assumed that cut has been made at the Jth
position and calculate the profit by adding the price of
rod of length J and the maximum profit that can be
obtained for the remaining length
First J is pointing to one so the price of
the rod with length one is two remaining length
Here is J minus one that is two minus one
which is one
We know that the maximum profit that can be obtained
for a rod of length one is two
So the profit will be two plus two which is
four next
J's value is two that is we are taking the
piece of length two as a whole
So the profit we get is the price of the
rod of length two as the remaining length I minus
J is zero here
Five is greater than four that is taking the piece
of length two yields its maximum profit so obtained five
in the array of I
Whenever get maximum profit we have to update it in
array of I
Else we can ignore it
Let us move
one to the next sub problem Where I is equal to
three That is the length of the wood is three
Start iterating J from one assumed that a cut has
been made at one
The price of the rod of length one is two
The remaining length is three minus 1 2
The maximum profit that can be obtained with rod of length
two is five so the profit will be two plus
5 7 next J will be two if the cut has
been made at length two the price of Rod of
length two is five
The remaining length is three minus 2 1
The maximum profit that can be obtained for the remaining
length one is two so the profit will be the
same five plus 2 7
So we need not update array of I next J equal
to three
That is we are taking the piece of length three
as a whole
So the profit we will get is six which is
less than seven
So we need not update array of I does the maximum
profit that we can make when length of wood is
3 7 so let us
Repeat the same for I equal to four that is length
of wood is four First J will be pointing to
one that is we will make a cut at length
One
The price of the rod of length one is two
and the maximum profit that can be obtained for the
remaining length three is seven
So the total profit is seven plus two nine next
J is two We are making a cut at length two
the price of the rod of length two and the
maximum profit for the remaining length two is five
So the total profit here is five
plus 5 10 and 10 is greater than nine so
update array of I next J is equal to three rod
of length three will cost six
And for remaining length one we will get a maximum
profit of two
So the total profit is six plus two eight and
eight is less than ten
So we shall ignore it finally J is equal to four
Here we are taking the wood of length four as
a whole
For this we will get a profit of eight and
eight is less than 10 so we will not update
array of I
Thus when the length of wood is four the maximum
profit that we can get is ten which we have
got in array of four.